Add variability change for these functions. (#3610)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/operatorsandexpressions.tex

\item
  Evaluable parameter variables, see \cref{component-variability}.
\item

>   Input variables in functions not having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}) behave as though they were evaluable expressions.

Reviewer: Cross reference is not at start of a sentence:
```suggestion
  Input variables in functions not having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}) behave as though they were evaluable expressions.
```

  \item
    \lstinline!cardinality(c)!, see restrictions for use in \cref{cardinality-deprecated}.
  \item

>     \lstinline!size(A)! (including \lstinline!size(A, j)! where \lstinline!j! is an evaluable expression) if \lstinline!A! is variable declared in a non-function class, or as input in a function having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}).

Reviewer: I think this is what is meant:
```suggestion
    \lstinline!size(A)! (including \lstinline!size(A, j)! where \lstinline!j! is an evaluable expression) if \lstinline!A! is variable declared in a non-function class, or \lstinline!A! is an input in a function having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}).
```

Author: > The proposed change of language aside, I find this rule the most unintuitive part of the change. The purpose is to allow `size`-expressions in array dimensions, right? Why isn't there a similar rule for `end`?

Seems it was missed. And, yes, end was previously defined as having the same size(A) - so that should be kept; depending on the next.

> How is this related to the conceptual idea behind _evaluable_, namely that a parameter expression can be evaluated during model translation if needed?

Hmm... I'm considering whether it should be removed.

The relation to evaluable is that inputs to functions not having GenerateEvents=true, are evaluable as before; which apart from allowing the function call to be evaluated allows other variables to use that size in their declarations. 

Basically the normal:
```
function f
   input Real u[:];
   output Real y[size(u,1)];
```

The idea with the text was to still allow size(A,1) for inputs in functions having GenerateEvents=true. However, given that the simple idea is to inline the call to generate events I don't see how such arrays can easily be supported.

Author: Actually I _had_ already reverted that change.
The only remaining change on those line(s) is that a parenthesis is now closed - instead of being left hanging.

>     \lstinline!size(A)! (including \lstinline!size(A, j)! where \lstinline!j! is an evaluable expression) if \lstinline!A! is variable declared in a non-function class, or \lstinline!A! is an input in a function having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}).

Author: Ok, the point here is that even if GenerateEvents=true functions behave similarly as model, the array doesn't have to be a declared array variable in a model.
As I understand it the issue is more that such arrays are problematic, than taking their size.

  Note that \lstinline!rem! and \lstinline!mod! generate events but are not discrete-time expressions.
  In other words, relations inside \lstinline!noEvent!, such as \lstinline!noEvent(x>1)!, are not discrete-time expressions.
  \end{nonnormative}
\item
  Unless inside \lstinline!noEvent!: Function calls where the function has annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}), the output does not contain a subtype of \lstinline!Real!, and any non-\lstinline!Real! inputs have discrete-time variability.
  For a function call returning multiple return values (see \cref{output-formal-parameters-of-functions}) the variability is decided separately for each output.

>   These calls will generate events, \Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}.

Reviewer: I think this sentence is more of a distraction than helpful here:
```suggestion
```

Author: Ok, the important part was to have the reference to it, but we have that above.

\item
  The functions \lstinline!pre!, \lstinline!edge!, and \lstinline!change! result in discrete-time expressions.
\item

>   Expressions in functions not having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}), behave as though they were discrete-time expressions.

Reviewer: Don't we need more specification of variability inside functions that do have `GenerateEvents = true`?  We don't want all expressions inside such function bodies to get non-discrete-time variability, right?

Reviewer: This could be a start…
```suggestion
  The variability of expressions inside functions depends upon the \lstinline!GenerateEvents! annotation (\Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}).  With \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!, expression variability is determined according to the same rules as outside of functions.  Otherwise, all expressions have at most discrete-time variability (some expressions, such as function inputs and literals have lower variability).```

Author: That was the intent of the text I wrote (ignoring the misplaced trailing quotes).

The overall structure of that secition is that it specifies when expressions have lower variability. Stating that functions having GenerateEvents=true use the same rule as non-function is thus not needed, and similarly there is no need to say "at most discrete-time" as the less variable cases should already be handled.

Reviewer: OK, makes sense.  The formulation is a bit unusual, though, shouldn't we simply say:
```suggestion
  Expressions in functions not having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}).
```
This item would then look better before or after _Expressions in a clocked discrete-time partition_.

I also think there is a missing `\cref{discrete-time-expressions}` link to this section from this item in _functions.tex_, and the item would need to be updated according to whatever semantics we come up with here:
> Components of a function will inside the function behave as though they had discrete-time variability.

Author: The "behave as though they were discrete-time expressions." have been present for quite some time on some of the entries. I don't want to change them as part of this PR.

Author: And added the other reference.

>   Expressions in functions (unless they have annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!, \Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}), behave as though they were discrete-time expressions.

Author: ```suggestion
  Expressions in functions not having annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}), behave as though they were discrete-time expressions.
```
The previous formulation lacked precision. "They" could possibly mean "expressions".

  Note that \lstinline!rem! and \lstinline!mod! generate events but are not discrete-time expressions.
  In other words, relations inside \lstinline!noEvent!, such as \lstinline!noEvent(x>1)!, are not discrete-time expressions.
  \end{nonnormative}
\item

>   Unless inside \lstinline!noEvent!: Function calls where the function has annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true!, \Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents} and the output does not contain a subtype of \lstinline!Real!.

Reviewer: Reorder slightly:
```suggestion
  Unless inside \lstinline!noEvent!: Function calls where the function has annotation \lstinline!GenerateEvents = true! (\Cref{modelica:GenerateEvents}) and the output does not contain a subtype of \lstinline!Real!.
```
